# ICS4U-Portfolio

### 5. What does it mean to have good programming practices?
Having good programming practices means doing everthing you can to ensure that your code is clear and functional. This includes formatting, documenting and incluing logcial variable names to make your program as easy to follow as possible. Making it readable by a human, not just a computer is also important if you wish for your code to be reviewed by someone else, another good practice. Good programming also entails debugging your code and testing to make sure the desired outcome is achieved in every scenario. Avoiding hard coding multiple instances of the same thing is also a good practice.

For me personally, good programming practices and ensuring that my programs are clear, concise and easy to follow. I am often lazy and skip the documentation and formatting which is a huge detriment to making my code readable to myself and others in the future. It also means cleaning up unecessary variables, functions or any code that serves no purpose in the most recent version of the program. I have also learned the usefulness of objects this semester which allow me to avoid writing out many repeated instances of near indentical things and allow for refactoring in the future. 

### 6. Summarize your experiences with khan academy.
Khan Academy provided many programming courses which taught basic concepts of computer science, data managment and programming through either video or text lessons. Introductory courses like Intro to Javascript taught syntax and basic concepts of a language, giving the user skills they needed to understand the more complex applications in more advanced courses such as Natural Simulations. The website makes an effort to keep users engaged with funny avatars and short, digestable lessons and challenges. Khan Academy also encouraged users to pursue what they have learnt further by suggesting other courses, libraries and ressources to apply what they have taught outside of the website's code editor.

What I really appreciated with Khan Academy was the ability to ask questions and get project feedback from the community. If you were struggling with something, Khan Academy usually had ressources to assist you. That being said, I did struggle with a bit of the content, namely Natural Simulations where my lack of knowledge on concepts like normal distributions and pendulums made it extremely difficult to implement. Many of the challenges also seemed to limit creativity by attempting to guide you to a specific answer rather than let you attempt your own original solution. Overall, Khan Academy was a useful learning ressource for me this semester and has equiped me with the basic knowledge in theory and skills needed to continue in computer science.

### 7. Summarize your experience with free code camp.
Free Code Camp is a learning ressource similar to Khan Academy, but more focused on teaching the concepts rather than being engaging or providing "fun" challenges. Rather than giving tutorials, Free Code Camp hands you the concept and later asks you to apply it in a project. All of the lessons only use concepts that have already been seen, which makes it easy for anyone to learn from scratch on this platform. Free Code Camp also appeared to have significantly more content than Khan Academy, making it a great ressource for continued learning.  

What I enjoyed about Free Code Camp was the grader. Instead of looking for a specific answer, Free Code Camp simply checked to see if your program was capable of accomplishing the assigned task. The site did not have the community ressources that Khan Academy did however, which made it significantly less engaging. Although the javascript and bootstrap courses were similar to stuff I had learned on Khan Academy, more technical concepts were covered like string manipulation and circular css borders. Free Code Camp was a nice change of pace from the excessive fluff on many of the Khan Academy lessons.

## [My Website](https://noah124.github.io/ICS4U-Portfolio/)
